README.md, before:

Mink Driver testsuite
=====================

This is the common testsuite for Mink drivers to ensure consistency among implementations.

Usage
-----

The testsuite of a driver should be based as follow:

```json
{
    "require": {
        "behat/mink": "~1.7"
    },
    
    "require-dev": {
        "mink/driver-testsuite": "dev-master"
    },

    "autoload-dev": {
        "psr-4": {
            "Acme\\MyDriver\\Tests\\": "tests"
        }
    }
}
```

The PHPUnit config should look like this:

```xml
<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>

<phpunit colors="true" bootstrap="vendor/autoload.php">
    <php>
        <var name="driver_config_factory" value="Acme\MyDriver\Tests\Config::getInstance" />
    </php>

    <testsuites>
        <testsuite name="Functional tests">
            <directory>vendor/mink/driver-testsuite/tests</directory>
        </testsuite>
        <!-- if needed to add more tests -->
        <testsuite name="Driver tests">
            <directory>./tests/</directory>
        </testsuite>
    </testsuites>

    <filter>
        <whitelist>
            <directory>./src</directory>
        </whitelist>
    </filter>
</phpunit>
```

Then create the driver config for the testsuite:

```php
// tests/Config.php

namespace Acme\MyDriver\Tests;

use Behat\Mink\Tests\Driver\AbstractConfig;

class Config extends AbstractConfig
{
    /**
     * Creates an instance of the config.
     *
     * This is the callable registered as a php variable in the phpunit.xml config file.
     * It could be outside the class but this is convenient.
     */
    public static function getInstance()
    {
        return new self();
    }

    /**
     * Creates driver instance.
     *
     * @return \Behat\Mink\Driver\DriverInterface
     */
    public function createDriver()
    {
        return new \Acme\MyDriver\MyDriver();
    }
}
```

Some other methods are available in the AbstractConfig which can be overwritten to adapt the testsuite to
the needs of the driver (skipping some tests for instance).

Running tests
-------------

Before running tests, you need to start the webserver exposing the web fixtures (unless the driver does
not perform real HTTP requests). This is done using this command:

```bash
$ vendor/bin/mink-test-server
```

To stop the server at the end of tests, cancel the command.

> Note: this command requires Bash. If you are on Windows, use either GitBash or Cygwin (or another
> equivalent tool) to launch it.
>
> This command also requires PHP 5.4+ to be able to use the builtin webserver. If the PHP version available
> in the PATH is a different one, use the `MINK_PHP_BIN` env variable to select a different PHP runtime.

You can now run tests for your driver with `phpunit`.

Adding Driver-specific Tests
----------------------------

When adding extra test cases specific to the driver, either use your own namespace or put them in the
``Behat\Mink\Tests\Driver\Custom`` subnamespace to ensure that you will not create conflicts with test cases
added in the driver testsuite in the future.

Commit message:

Add PHPUnit as a dependency
Until now, our CI config relies on the simple-phpunit script of the
symfony/phpunit-bridge to install a version of PHPUnit compatible with
the PHP version. But this has one drawback: the bridge could be updated
to select new PHPUnit versions before our testsuite is compatible.
So we now use a composer dependency directly.

README.md, after:

Mink Driver testsuite
=====================

This is the common testsuite for Mink drivers to ensure consistency among implementations.

Usage
-----

The testsuite of a driver should be based as follow:

```json
{
    "require": {
        "behat/mink": "~1.7"
    },

    "require-dev": {
        "mink/driver-testsuite": "dev-master"
    },

    "autoload-dev": {
        "psr-4": {
            "Acme\\MyDriver\\Tests\\": "tests"
        }
    }
}
```

The PHPUnit config should look like this:

```xml
<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>

<phpunit colors="true" bootstrap="vendor/autoload.php">
    <php>
        <var name="driver_config_factory" value="Acme\MyDriver\Tests\Config::getInstance" />
    </php>

    <testsuites>
        <testsuite name="Functional tests">
            <directory>vendor/mink/driver-testsuite/tests</directory>
        </testsuite>
        <!-- if needed to add more tests -->
        <testsuite name="Driver tests">
            <directory>./tests/</directory>
        </testsuite>
    </testsuites>

    <filter>
        <whitelist>
            <directory>./src</directory>
        </whitelist>
    </filter>
</phpunit>
```

Then create the driver config for the testsuite:

```php
// tests/Config.php

namespace Acme\MyDriver\Tests;

use Behat\Mink\Tests\Driver\AbstractConfig;

class Config extends AbstractConfig
{
    /**
     * Creates an instance of the config.
     *
     * This is the callable registered as a php variable in the phpunit.xml config file.
     * It could be outside the class but this is convenient.
     */
    public static function getInstance()
    {
        return new self();
    }

    /**
     * Creates driver instance.
     *
     * @return \Behat\Mink\Driver\DriverInterface
     */
    public function createDriver()
    {
        return new \Acme\MyDriver\MyDriver();
    }
}
```

Some other methods are available in the AbstractConfig which can be overwritten to adapt the testsuite to
the needs of the driver (skipping some tests for instance).

Running tests
-------------

Before running tests, you need to start the webserver exposing the web fixtures (unless the driver does
not perform real HTTP requests). This is done using this command:

```bash
$ vendor/bin/mink-test-server
```

To stop the server at the end of tests, cancel the command.

> Note: this command requires Bash. If you are on Windows, use either GitBash or Cygwin (or another
> equivalent tool) to launch it.
>
> This command also requires PHP 5.4+ to be able to use the builtin webserver. If the PHP version available
> in the PATH is a different one, use the `MINK_PHP_BIN` env variable to select a different PHP runtime.

You can now run tests for your driver with `phpunit`.
This package installs PHPUnit as a dependency to ensure that a version of PHPUnit compatible with the testsuite is used.

Adding Driver-specific Tests
----------------------------

When adding extra test cases specific to the driver, either use your own namespace or put them in the
``Behat\Mink\Tests\Driver\Custom`` subnamespace to ensure that you will not create conflicts with test cases
added in the driver testsuite in the future.
